Hassan nasah the leader of the Hezbollah
militia in Lebanon has threatened a
fight with no rules if Israel launches a
full-scale war with his group he also
said Cyprus would be a legitimate Target
in any future War if it continues its
military collaboration with Israel his
statement followed Israel's announcement
that its military has approved a plan
for an operation in southern
Lebanon the latest strikes on Lebanon
Israel and the militant group Hezbollah
have been trading crossb attacks almost
daily now they have taken steps with the
potential for a fullscale
conflict Israel has approved what it
calls operational plans for an offensive
in Lebanon we've made absolutely clear
that one way or another diplomatically
or through uh military means uh our our
northern border the north of our country
will our Israeli Sovereign territory
will be made safe for Israel's
population Israel's people to return
them hezbollah's leader Hassan nasala
responded by promising a fight with no
rules they have to wait for us on the
ground in the air and in the
sea we have said this before and I will
say this again today
if the wars imposed on Lebanon the
resistance will fight without control
without rules and without a
ceiling the crossb exchanges of fire
began after the October 7 terrorist
attack by Hamas the UN says more than
400 people were killed in Lebanon in
such strikes including dozens of
civilians on the Israeli side the
reported casualties amount to at least
25 soldiers and
civilians Hezbollah says it is ready to
deescalate but to do so it wants
something that has proven difficult to
achieve alastin ceasefire in
Gaza and DW correspondent Rebecca rits
is following events from hia near
Israel's northern border with Lebanon
Rebecca good to see you Hassan nasah has
warned any potential Hezbollah attack on
Israel would be one with no rules how is
Israel seeing this
warning well Israel takes the threat on
its northern border very seriously beish
and that is why it has had a very very
large troop presence here in the north
along the border and of course all the
military hardware that goes with that uh
since the very beginning of this war in
fact since uh Hezbollah launched its
attacks into Northern Lebanon on the 8th
of October in support of hamas's war in
Gaza uh so it's been taking it seriously
all along I mean the Israeli military
has been incredibly tied up in the Gaza
war and it hasn't wanted to open up a
completely a second front in the north
but it is the received wisdom that the
idea would be that Israel has to in fact
push back uh the the the threat of hezb
at its northern border and that after it
has quote unquote completed its missions
in Gaza it will then turn its attention
to the north that could be what we're
starting to see with this ramp up of
rhetoric and the heightened tensions
here on the border NASA is not the only
person raising the rhetoric though
you're seeing that on the Israeli side
as well with threats coming and we saw
the the confirmation as you just
mentioned that they have in fact green
lit their plan uh and they will
implement it if necessary you're in hia
which Hezbollah apparently filmed with a
drone showing potential targets do
residents feel under threat of attack
from Hezbollah
well we came here to gauge that sense
beish you can see behind me uh a little
bit of the ocean and the port which is
there which is one of the targets that
Hezbollah had in its sights in that
Drone footage um we've spoken to people
here on the streets you know last night
when we arrived all the cafes
restaurants everything was open it's
definitely business as usual here in hia
I think residents here uh feel a sense
of normality still at this stage though
they do uh obviously are aware of the
heightened threat they are concerned and
I think everybody feels that that a a
wider conflict or certainly a larger
scale war with Hezbollah is in the
future so of course there's concerns but
really when you walk around Hyer I have
to say that it's it's seemingly very
normal I was just actually speaking to a
military personnel in uh downstairs down
from where we're standing now and he was
saying that he believes war is is is
really inevitable but that as as you
look around and as I can see with my own
eyes people here are not yet yet
concerned enough to be to be making any
concessions meanwhile crossb attacks
between Israel and Hezbollah have
actually been taking place for months so
why are tensions particularly escalating
right
now well despite the fact that Israel
and Lebanon have have been H in a quasi
conflict regarding the Border region uh
for many years this current flare up is
inextricably linked to the war in Gaza
and the longer that that goes on uh the
more risk there is of this spilling over
into a wider conflict into a direct
conflict with Hezbollah or with Lebanon
and seeing that as as a more allout
conflict rather than the tit fortat that
we have been seeing now for for nine
months or so uh so the longer this goes
on without a hostage deal without an end
to the war in Gaza and without a
withdrawal of troops there we're we're
moving further and further closer
towards some wider conflict we leave it
there for the moment twws Rebecca RIT is
reporting from hia thanks so much